Here’s a step-by-step guide for running a local HTML program (like the Mini CMS/CRM) from your computer using the terminal or command line. The steps cover the most common OS (Windows, macOS, Linux) and both direct browser loading and local web server approaches.

1. Directly Open in Your Web Browser (Easiest Method)
For All Operating Systems
Open a terminal window (Cmd on macOS, Command Prompt or PowerShell on Windows, Terminal on Linux).

Navigate to your file’s folder

Windows:
cd C:\Path\To\Your\File

macOS/Linux:
cd /path/to/your/file

Open the HTML file in your default browser

Windows:
start index.html

macOS:
open index.html

Linux (with default browser):
xdg-open index.html
(Replace index.html with your actual filename if needed.)
This opens the file directly in your default web browser without needing a server.

2. Use a Simple Local Web Server (Recommended for Projects with Linked Files)
Running your HTML file via a local web server (e.g., http://localhost:8000) is recommended if your project has linked CSS, JavaScript, or images. This ensures all resources load correctly.

Using Python (Windows, macOS, Linux)
Check Python is installed
In your terminal, type:
python --version or python3 --version
(Python usually comes preinstalled on macOS and Linux; Windows users may need to install it.)

Navigate to your project folder
cd /path/to/your/project

Start the server

Python 3:
python3 -m http.server 8000

Python 2:
python -m SimpleHTTPServer 8000

Open your browser
Go to:
http://localhost:8000
You should see your HTML file listed; click it to open your application.

Using Node.js (Optional)
Install Node.js if you don’t have it (download from nodejs.org).

Install http-server globally (one-time setup):
npm install http-server -g

Navigate to your project folder
cd /path/to/your/project

Start the server
http-server

Open your browser
Go to:
http://localhost:8080
(This will serve the current directory.)

3. Open HTML File in a Specific Browser
You can directly launch your file in a specific browser from the command line:

Chrome on Linux:
google-chrome index.html

Firefox on Linux:
firefox index.html

macOS (Google Chrome):
open -a "Google Chrome" index.html

4. When Should You Use a Local Web Server?
When your HTML uses linked CSS, JavaScript, or image files.
Opening directly with a browser may fail to load linked files due to security restrictions.

When you want to simulate a “real” web environment (e.g., for AJAX requests or local APIs).

If you get error messages about missing resources when loading directly in the browser.

#Troubleshooting
If linked files don’t load: Always use a local web server.

If port is in use: Choose a different port (e.g., python3 -m http.server 9000).

Replace index.html with your actual filename if different.

That’s it! These steps will let you run your web project from the terminal, either directly in a browser or via a local web server, on any major operating system.

